Georges' arm

Georges' arm is an application coupled with embedded system that allow to control a robot arm with your android smartphone.
This arm is handmade and is controled by an PIC system generating PWM for the servos.
The application count three tabs : 
x Bluetooth 
The communication between the smartphone and the arm use bluetooth.
In this tab we can couple/connect/configure/disconnect the Bluetooth connections between the two systems. 
x Calibration
The arm can be guided by a couple of the embedded Smartphone's sensors, therefore it must be calibrated before use.
In this tab we can calibrate the 3 axis accelerometer and the compass for a better user experience.
x Control
The arm can be guided in two differents ways, by cursors display of the screen of the smartphone or using the embedded smartphone's sensors. 
In this tab the arm will reproduce all the movements of the smartphone and apply all the values of differents cursors.

And all of that in a fancy design !


Missiles snapshots

This embedded system allow to take an high amount of pictures of a missile ignition.

The goal of the system is to detect the exact moment of a missile ignition and then command up to two cameras to take pictures of this launch.

The missile can be from different types:
Anti-tank missile (or any missile fire from a earthbound tripod)
Sea-Sea/Ground/Air missile (fire from a aircraft carrier)

The detection of the missile's ignition can be made by :
Detection of flames
Detection of sound (detonation of the ignition)
Detection of the openning from the gas extraction trap by differents sort of sensors.

Inside the box we can configure a delay before snapshots will be taken, the duration of the snapshots and an alarm to keep awake the cameras.
And then high-power LEDs display the different states of the system (ignition detection, battery level, camera 1/2 state).

In addition the whole system is waterproof (can stay in the water at 60 meters depth for 2 weeks) and can run up to 72 hours nonstop.

During testing process both cameras have taken snapshots at a speed of 60 frame/second, but the management system has no limitated speed.


Freescale Cup

The Freescale Cup is a global competition where student teams build, program, and race a model car around a track for speed. 
The fastest car to complete the track without derailing, wins.

The track is composed of different known circuit parts. Each part have different forms but all have a white background and one black line of both borders.
With this two black lines and the embedded car's camera we can determine through digital processing the location of the lines. 
Then we can ajust the comportment of the car, regulate the direction of the car and the speed of each rear wheels.

A couple of domains are implicated in the Freescale Cup :
	Regulation
	Physics
	Mathematical
	Programming (C language)
	Microcontroler programming (Cortex M4, registers, ports, ...)
	Monitoring (Wi-Fi communication and LabVIEW)
	Electronic
	Software design 
	...
	
	
The biggest challenge is to adopt the more aggressive drive comportment dealing with the physical constraint of this little weight car.

I take part of this race with another teammate in the Haute Ecole ARC race team in 2015, we finished second of the France-Switzerland final and 8<sup>th</sup> of the EMEA final.
We are also ranked 64<sup>th</sup> worldwide (out of a total of 35.000 students parcipating).



Acoustic localisation

This system was design and develop in the context of my swiss Bachelor degree thesis.

My thesis is focused of the monitoring of animals for the purpose of their protection and preservation.

This monitoring is based on the acoustic localisation and follow this process : 
We place three modules at known location
Each module comports a USB key (256 GB)and a microphone
Each module record the sound coming from their microphones
Convert it in digital signal
Save this raw digital signal of their USB keys
After three months and 6 hours of daily recording we retieve the three USB keys
On a computer we perform signal processing using correlation to extract animal noises
Then with a final process we have the localisation and movement of the animal during the three months

The problem with this process is that the modules must be exactly time-synchronised, otherwise the localisation will be distorted. 
To achieve a very accurate time-synchronisation we use a GPS receiver and take the GPS clock.
With this solution we can theoretically locate the animal with an error from less that one meter in a range of a couple of kilometers. 
  
This board is design for a very low-power application with high performance.
The design of the board is selfmade, choosing the best hardware possibilities and the most performants electronical parts.



IoT

This system was design and develop in the context of my german Bachelor degree thesis.

My thesis is focused of the securisation of a communication channel in the field of IoT.

The goal is to secure an unsecured communication channel between sensors,gateways,brokers and computers (field of home and building automation).

The first part of the thesis was to establish a communication between all the partners, all using different communication medium (Ethernet, Wi-Fi, 6LoWPAN, ...)
 and different internet protocols(UDP/TCP, IPV4/IPV6).

The second part was the securisation of that freshly established communication.
We are therefore going to use cryptography principles (key exchange, certificates, ...) and security protocols (DTLS, TLS, ...).

The final solution combine different communication mediums, security protocols, cryptography principles and internet protocols.
We can now send data between sensors/actuators and a management center (laptops, tablets, phones, smartwatchs, ...) using a secured channel. 